In this video we're going to discuss Oh SPF version 3 or open shortest path.
First version 3 0 SPF.
Version 3 provides a routing capabilities for IP version 6.
Most engineers when they talk about SPF are referring to a SPF of Version 2 which provides a unique
cost of routing for IP version 4.
However if you have IP version 6 addresses configured you can't use 0 SPF Version 2 because 0 SPF Version
2 only supports IP version 4 and not IP version 6 0 SPF version 3 expands on 0 SPF Version 2 to provide
support for routing IP version 6 prefixes and support for 128 but IP vs 6 addresses.
There is a lot of similarity between SPF version 2 and OSP version 3.
So we have the concept of LSD.
We have the concept of areas and so forth but be aware that these protocols are independent of each
other.
There is a version to will advertise IP version for networks and OSP version 3 is able to advertise
IP vs 6 networks.
They can be configured on the same router but run independently of each other.
In other words they have separate databases.
They use different addresses for advertisements and they don't communicate with one another.
So here are some examples of similarities between the two protocols.
They are both linked state routing protocols.
They both use the same area design concepts and terms so we have a backbone area we have area border
routers and autonomous system border riders and so forth.
The way that you enable the writing protocol is different in SPF version 3 versus 0 SPF version 2.
You're still enabling the writing protocol on interfaces but in OSP version too you use the network
command whereas in SPF version 3 you go onto the interface and enable a SPF when 0 SPF is enabled on
an interface.
The writers can discover one another on directly connected links.
They both check various settings before a neighbour relationship is established so as an example both
riders need to be in the same area to form a neighbour relationship and share the same password.
If authentication has been enabled both protocols use LINQ state advertisements to advertise details
of the network and they both bold links state databases.
They both use the shortest path first algorithm or SPF or Dykstra as algorithm to determine the best
path to a network.
Networks are based on the cost of an interface with the same default metric based on 100 meg interface
LSA is also flooded throughout the 0 SPF domain but there are awesome differences in the lessees between
0 SPF version 2 and OSP version 3.
The differences in the LSD and the way the databases are structured are out of the scope of the CDC
and a certification both protocols use a 32 bit Rada I.D. to identify a.
If you're running a pure IP vs 6 network which we're going to do in a moment using this topology you
need to manually configure a 32 bit Rada I.D. on each rider 0 SPF version 3 uses IP version 6.
A link local addresses for neighbor relationships that's different to 0 SPF version 2 which used IP
version 4 interface ip addresses for the neighbor relationship establishment in OSP.
Version 2 you had to make sure that the neighboring routers were in the same subnet otherwise they wouldn't
form a neighbour relationship but in 0 SPF version 3 the neighbor relationship is now formed using a
link local address instead of an interface ip address or SPF version 3 uses multicast address.
F f 0 2.
Colon colon 5 to advertise information to all 0 SPF rorters and f f 0 2 colon colon 6 4 0 SPF designated
Rada and backup designated rota.
That's very similar to 0 SPF version 2 which uses 2 2 4 0 0 5 and 2 2 4 0 0 6 the same protocol number
refused IP version 6 protocol number is 89 4 always be a version 3 and always be P.F. version 2 uses
IP version 4 protocol number 89.
So now let's look at how to configure this network using SPF.
Version 3.
This is a pure IP version 6 network.